>> Mike North: All right, welcome back.
First, an apology,
there is a really like esoteric problem
that some of you may have run into.
And hopefully, if you're watching on the
video course now, you did not hit this.
But it involves course and
credential to requests.
And it is one like intersection
of two concepts where
it could lead to some unsafe situations,
and browsers protect us from that.
But it may have been interfering
with our ability to go and
get those fallback images.
So I have here on MDN the text
that you can find later, so
that we can read about it.
The thing to search for
is credentialed requests and wildcards.
And the idea here is that if you have a
wildcard course header which is basically
that our little API is saying,
it is safe to hit me from any origin,
including dangerous scammer.cc.net.
And you would never want to do this
outside the context of a workshop.
We have it this way so
that even if you wanna use 127.0.0.1 or
localhost or lvh.me,
it will work for all of these things.
However, the browser is
going to block us and
unfortunately not give us a whole lot
of useful feedback about why it's
blocking us because we are making
what is called a credential request.
You may be making a credentialed
request meaning your cookies
are passed along to the server as you
go and fetch one of those images.
And when we get a response that
has a wild card course header,
we're not allowed to let that
happen in the context of
sending our cookies along for the ride.
This is for your safety so
that I can't just make my own page with
a bunch of Ajax in it that's gonna
talk to your online bank and
your cookies going to authenticate you
as I do a whole bunch of bad stuff.
So you may have run into that problem,
I'm gonna show you how to
solve it really quickly.
This actually pertained more to
the last exercise rather than this one,
but we will go ahead and
catch up really quickly.
So as we were looking for that fallback
image right here, there's our fetch right?
Now you see here mine's working
because there's a fix for the API,
it's been checked into master.
You may not have pulled this in yet and
that's why you would hit this problem.
The way we would make sure
that credentials were
not sent along is like this,
credentials omit.
So, for example,
you were seeing the fallback images for
every single grocery item on the page,
this might have been your problem.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna leave this in
here just in case people come across this.
>> Speaker 2: What file is that?
>> Mike North: This is
your service worker, SWs.
And I'll say,
in case CORS wild card header.
Sorry about that we fixed it but
we forgot to let you know that there
was a problem and that we fixed it.
With that, let's go into the solution for
a quick boot.
So first thing I'm going to do is
grab this URL from asset manifest and
I'm gonna try and
squeeze that as much as I can.
And I like having this kind of thing,
like a very static-y or
I like this should be a constant on
top of my service work or module.
So asset manifest URL.
>> Mike North: There we go.
All right, so the first thing I wanna do
is I want to go ahead and populate,
I want to get the precache stuff ready.
So I'm gonna do this in two phases.
First, let's download everything we need.
And then second,
I'm gonna worry about in my Fetch Handler,
making some improvements so that I can
take advantage of those downloads.
So let's proceed.
Now we've run into
a situation where Steve and
his solution for the fallback images,
he's put this promise in Wade Intel.
Now we've reached the very common
situation where we need more than one
thing we're waiting on.
We basically want to kick off a bunch
of things in parallel, right?
Go download that fallback image and
also download these assets I know about.
We want them to happen in parallel.
We have a nice little helper here.
Promise that all takes
an array of promises and
it will essentially wait for
everything to result.
So we kick them all off,
as far as we're concerned at once,
it will be kicked off in sequence very,
very close together.
And now, so this is like promise
number one, get the fallback image.
And then promise number two is populate
the precache stuff and
that is gonna be its function, this
is gonna get a little bit more involved
than Steve's little one line thing.
So we don't want that complexity to
start cluttering our install handler.
So we're just gonna call it that and
we will add in argument as
we find that we need them.
So the first thing is this is
gonna return a promise, right?
And this is part of what's
gonna help us with,
if you're interested in learning
more about Visual Studio code,
you can see it's helping us see that
now it knows this returns a promise.
If it returned like a string,
we might see,
I guess it's not quite that smart yet.
Sometimes you will see
like feedback saying,
you probably don't wanna pass that
into the promised.all function.
So step one, get the asset manifest,
how should I go and do that?
>> Mike North: Fetch.
Wonderful, so it's a get request,
I'm not gonna worry about
any options passed to it.
I don't think I'll need them,
so get the response,
turn it into JSON, and then,
>> Mike North: We've got jsonAssets or
something like that.
I'm just gonna put a debugger here so
we can iteratively see what we're
working with as we go along.
Let me make sure our server is up.
>> Mike North: Refresh.
>> Mike North: I don't wanna be offline.
>> Mike North: It's just
building right now or
it should be perm.
>> Mike North: All right, I'm not sure,
we'll clear the caches,
see what's going on.
I'm getting an empty response,
>> Mike North: Don't see build error.
>> Mike North: There you,
I'm not using https.
There we go.
All right, so now we're in this debugger.
And here's what our asset
manifest looks like.
This is how you want this object to look.
So For our keys, we have things
that don't change, app.js that's
always sort of we can call it
the canonical name of this resource.
Right, it's how we would
refer to it as developers.
In reality, when this is built,
we get that long fingerprint there so
that we can use cache busting effectively.
We can take advantage of this
immutable content passion strategy.
And what these lessons to do is
like we know we want app.js,
so we can now get the real
file name of that file, and
now we have the ability to download it.
So, I don't know if you look around and
saw that we might have a couple little
clues here
>> Mike North: In here,
there were a couple little helpers.
If you were looking around and
you found like there was this clear method
like remove unused caches, but
we've got an asset manifest URL here.
We've got RESOURCES TO PRECACHE.
So, if you looked at these,
they might be a sign that like,
this might be like a wait
list of things to bring in.
Right, it may be like,
this is the set of keys to look for
in this asset manifest object.
>> Mike North: And like those
are the things we should go and fetch.
So, what I'm gonna do,
let's actually move this out to this other
file since I have it sorta
half completed there, const.
So I think this is the entry point here,
pre-fetched static assets.
>> Mike North: We'll go through
it line by line, don't worry.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
import from caches.js,
move that up to the top.
>> Mike North: Wonderful, all right,
so in here, this is where we enter.
And ultimately,
like we're returning a promise as always.
First thing we're gonna do
is fetch that manifest.
We got response.json,
we've got our assetManifestJson.
Now we need to do something with it.
And, this list of little
regular expressions here,
if you've used these before like this is
a good use of regular expressions, right?
Because in this case, like,
I can get any of the images.
Basically, this is the whole image folder.
This will be all of my like,
launch images,
I don't have to enumerate them one by one.
So I've got those resources to cache and
then I've got a little
helper function here.
ShouldPrecacheFile, that looks
like it might be something we can
use to check whether
like a given key in that
asset manifest represents something that
we should bother to go and pre-fetch.
So with that, we can do this toPrefetch.
>> Mike North: This is gonna
end up being an array.
That equals Object.keys, this is
the way we get the keys of an object,
the innumerable properties.
And we're going to start with
the assetManifestationJson.
So what this we'll give us is basically
an array with app.css, css.map, and so on.
So we're gonna enumerate over those keys.
>> Mike North: And, we're going to use the
higher order function that's on arrays,
it is called filter.
And we basically pass in
the little tester function, and
that's tested on each element in array and
we get back from this,
a new array of all of those elements for
which that test passes.
And conveniently,
shouldPrecacheFile that is already
kind of aligned with the expected
convention for this test or
function, function that
receives a single argument.
>> Mike North: So now,
let's see where we left off here.
>> Mike North: Sorry, so
one thing you'll be aware of is that,
if you have a break point
in a service worker,
you may find that it's kind of
difficult to escape from it.
So this is your friend,
deactivate break point.
So if you're stopped at a particular
place, and you wanna sort of
play through and go and get the next
service worker, oftentimes he'll say like,
forget about break points for now, proceed
and then turn it back on, start fresh.
All right, so here, let's see what
to prefetch looks like, great.
So that looks like a nice little
subset of those resources.
We're not bothering with the source maps.
That CSS file, it's not a trick but
it's just there as bi-product
of the build process.
We don't need the CSS files,
it's all baked into index.html,
so now we've got a list
things to prefetch.
Conveniently, these are already
in a form where we can pass
them to the cache and say like,
go and get all of these things.
>> Mike North: So the way we do this, we
need a new cache here and the convection
here like this is me sharing patterns
that work in larger scale apps here.
I've got like a very nice convention for
cache names here, so
I could say, ALL CACHE that prefetch.
And then when it gets like
a version prefetched cache,
here is what those cache names looks like.
If we go to Application>Cache
storage,
>> Mike North: I
guess we don't have one yet,
we're about to.
>> Mike North: It's
the first time we have one.
So we're gonna say caches open and
we pass in the cacheName,
ALL_CACHES.prefetch.
>> Mike North: And that returns a promise.
And that's gonna be,
>> Mike North: That one prefetchCache.
So, can anybody think of
why I might wanna have
multiple caches where I am keeping stuff,
as oppose to one big pile of data?
>> Speaker 3: So that you can have
different strategies for different caches.
>> Mike North: Okay, different strategies
for different caches, that's correct.
Let me it some polish
on that correct point.
Sometimes, why would we have an option
to take the whole set of caches and
try match a request against that?
Oftentimes, we want to try to match
a request against a specific cache, and
then handle that appropriately.
So we have different types of assets and
we want the ability to have like multiple
different piles of things and say,
is this request in any pile, but
rather, are you in the prefetch pile?
>> Mike North: So now we've got
that prefetchCache and we can say,
addAll, and
it's gonna take RequestInfo objects.
This is Visual Studio
code's way of saying,
anything we could pass
to fetch can go here.
This could be URLs,
these could be a request that you build,
anything like that.
In this case, I kinda already got
something that looks appropriate here.
>> Mike North: And, what is addALL return?
No surprise, it returns a promise.
So in the tool tip,
you see that promise boolean,
that's just gonna tell us if things
were added successfully or not.
But we wanna make sure
we've returned that so
that when we eventually say Wait until
prefetch static assets are done,
we'll wait for
the follow routine of logic to happen.
One, we fetch the ASSET_MANIFEST,
we do the potentially asynchronous
thing of converting that into JSON.
Remember, it could be like a streaming
response, not in the case of JSON but
we have to be prepared for
that possibility, all right.
And then that will leave
us with assetManifest.Json.
We're going to synchronously
filter through and
find those appropriate assets
we want to Prefetch and then,
we're going to asynchronously, again,
open the cache, the appropriately cache.
And if it doesn't exist yet,
it'll be created for us on the fly.
And then finally, the last asynchronous
step in the chain is we're going to
basically create requests and begin the
process of adding all of these things to
the cache, and wait for that to complete.
So by the time this promise resolves,
we will have everything precached.
>> Mike North: And
when I say asynchronous,
when you're working in application land,
right, without a service worker.
Most of your asynchronous stuff involves
talking to the outside world and
asynchronous can be often synonymous
with taking a very long time.
These promises can
resolve in micro seconds.
So it may look like well, it's four
things in a row kind of in waterfall.
It is a really short waterfall.
So do not be concerned with
the number of steps in the chain.
The total time elapsed is quite short.
So we've got that in place and
let's see where we're at.
>> Mike North: Update and
reload happen and we are loading,
maybe we are at a break point,
let me make sure.
>> Mike North: Network,
all right, so I've just loaded,
let's take a look what's in the cache.
Currently, there's little Chrome bug where
this little tool here does not update
automatically.
You have to explicitly refresh it and,
I've got a nice new cache created.
It's called FEG-v2-prefetch.
What this means is at the top of this
cache's file, I can increment this
little number here, and all of
a sudden I'm working with version 3.
And that would mean that when it comes
time for like a service worker to clean up
all the old stuff,
all of the version 2 stuff go away.
It's a very common convention
diversion your cache this way.
And if you look at what's in there,
>> Mike North: Nothing is in there,
all right, let's see what's going on.
>> Mike North: Request
failed in service worker.
Let's add a couple of
little debuggers here.
>> Mike North: Registration is defined,
so that's no problem.
>> Mike North: Gonna track this one down,
that's not useful for me, all right.
We'll just put it in some of the places
that things could have gone wrong.
So let's add a debugger,
we've already put a debugger here.
We've seen this toPrefetch array.
Let's try one there.
>> Mike North: And then I'm gonna
bump the version of the cache just so
we get a clean slate.
>> Mike North: All right, so
there's the prefetchCache.
There it is, and we're saying addAll
toPrefetch of that list of things.
Looks okay to me.
>> Mike North: Let's play through.
>> Mike North: Interesting.
>> Mike North: You know what it could be,
let me check out these URLs one
more time with these paths.
app.js okay, anyone spot what's wrong?
I missed a step.
>> Speaker 2: You don't
actually have your hash.
>> Mike North: Yes,
I'm still using the keys of these objects.
There is no file called app.js.
There's app and then that fingerprint.js.
So one last step here, and
I expect this will work.
So we filter through and
then the last thing is we're going to map
which is another higher order function.
We're gonna take those keys and
I'm just gonna use that ASSET_MANIFEST
object to convert them into values.
>> Mike North: Just like that.
All right, let's see where we're at.
>> Mike North: And now,
I have to put it through,
>> Mike North: prefetchCache to prefetch,
that looks a lot better.
>> Mike North: Let me get rid of this.
>> Mike North: All right, let's check
out our cache and see where we're at.
>> Mike North: There we go, v3 prefetch,
I incremented the cache, right?
So, we've got these in here,
that's looking good.
I wanna make sure that this
stuff gets cleaned up,
really easy change that we can make.
I just need this function here.
I literally like copy and
paste this all over the place.
There's a more efficient way to do this.
But I do enjoy having this console log
where like, instead of going through and
deleting the caches one at a time,
that sort of accumulates
a list of things to delete.
So you get some feedback here.
And remember, it's happening in a separate
thread this is not going to like interfere
with your boot time or anything.
The install process of the service worker,
it kind of can take it sweet time.
If it takes five seconds, all you need
is your user to be on the page for
five seconds while the app
is already booted.
So inactivate, we're going to
say, we've created an event here and
by the time we've reached activate,
we are assured that the prefetchCache
has been populated.
So we're gonna say wait until
this takes a promise, and
we're gonna say remove unused caches,
we're gonna pass in all caches, and
I'll take care of that up here.
Actually, it's all caches list.
So, I've given you here
a good pattern to use.
These constants and stuff,
they're at the top of that caches file.
That will help you have some sanity
in your service worker design.
And we don't need this anymore,
let's see where we at now.
So now,
I'm gonna increment one more just for fun.
And I expect when we look, we should see a
v4 but two and three should be cleaned up.
>> Mike North: And there it is.
So now at any given time,
we basically wait.
We had v3,
it was there in case something failed.
So we can keep using that until we
know that v4 has been downloaded and
that sort of bundle of things
was intact and in memory.
We hold on to be v3 but when we
reach that moment, get rid of v3 and
everything else we're not using and
proceed onward.
>> Speaker 2: So what happens if
you hit your Theoretical limit
on the install because you have a service
worker that's got half of the limit.
You're getting new assets in,
you cache too much and
you never again attempt to install.
Because the browser blew away
your cache and you've installed
the service worker already, so
the install process doesn't happen again.
I feel like I just spoke Klingon,
did that make sense?
>> Mike North: Right, so
service worker is still active,
your cache has reached the threshold
where it gets evicted.
>> Speaker 2: And new guy comes in and
he hits the cache limit,
blowing away all the cache
during the install process.
>> Mike North: So I believe at
the time that a cache gets cleaned up,
your service worker will
begin its life cycle again.
So the cache API is designed to be used
in the install and activate hooks there.
So at the time, where like if the browser
reaches a threshold and decides to
squash your cache, you can be assured that
the next time your user visits your app,
you're gonna be either in
one of two situations.
Number one is they've never seen a service
worker before, and it's gonna activate in
the background, but they'll get
no benefits of the cache there.
Or two, no I believe that's
the only one they'll end up in.
>> Speaker 2: If the cache blows
up the install process fails?
>> Mike North: If the cache blows
up the install process fails,
the cache blows up-
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
cuz the promise will reject.
>> Mike North: If the install,
those seem unrelated to me.
>> Steve Kinney: So if you're returning
the promise on add all, if for
some reason any of those adding to the
cache reject, the promise at all rejects.
>> Mike North: Yeah,
if your promise fails,
you don't successfully reach the activate
phase, that's the point of having that.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, an interesting
point of color though is that again,
going on this idea of giving programmers
low level primitives, right?
That there is a quota API where you can
theoretically find out like how much
storage am I allotted,
how much am I using?
So ideally, if this is, I would
argue that for most use cases you're
unlikely to butt up against this for
regular page assets, right?
But in the situation where like,
I'm working on something where
I'm worried about this, right?
You could, in the active service worker,
be able to monitor how much am I using?
And in the same way that you
would do in a native application,
am I butting up against the threshold?
Okay, what can I delete from cache?
And you could handle
that programmatically.
And that's really one of the great things
with the way this API was designed is
that you have the ability to one,
introspect, and B, do something about it.
And like there isn't a take this answer
off of the shelf and use it, right?
Because especially it's like
a scaling issue, right?
When you reach that level of problem,
it is very specific, right?
So there is very rarely an off
the shelf solution for that.
But you're able to kind of find out,
yeah, how much storage you have,
how much you're using, and then depending
on the nature of your application,
how you ended up in that situation,
be able to deal with it.
The browser blowing stuff away is
not necessarily a threat to you,
it's more of like a safeguard
in case you made boo-boo.
[LAUGH] And so
that you don't eat up their entire disk.
So it's basically an escape hatch
if things go horribly wrong.
But it's not like this looming threat that
you could get cuz you have the ability to
figure out those kinds of things.
>> Mike North: It's also in case you
visit like thousands of websites and
they each take up 100 megabytes each and
that potentially can be a problem.
Especially on something like a Chromebook
that can affect performance or
mobile device for that matter.
Where people love to flirt with like
the total limit of their device.
They only have a little
bit of memory free.
I do want to make sure
we put a bow on this.
In the event the browser decides to squash
your cache as a result of you reaching
that threshold,
it is basically start over.
So you're not in this partially
disrupted state, you're back to zero.
And now the existing process
by which you would install
the service worker from scratch,
begins anew.
>> Steve Kinney: Assuming, of course
that you've programmed defensively.
If you're doing cache fallback to network,
the cache got blown away,
you will fall back to the network and
you can theoretically then
put that back in the cache.
If you're just always assuming
the cache is going to be there, well,
then that's a bug, right?
But yeah, that covers the strategies
Mike just went to over earlier.
It's the kind of like defensively, so
you want that progressive web app.
If no cache, I can progressively build it
back up again but I don't count on it.
And that's the progressive in
the progressive web app in that case.
>> Mike North: Yeah, and one more like
word of wisdom from someone that's been
trolled by service workers more than I
hope any of you get trolled by them,
start really simple.
This is not the kind of thing
where you wanna just jump in and
have one release where you're gonna
go from no service worker at all,
to full offline pumping stuff in
the IndexDB with notifications.
You wanna be conservative, and
so if you are doing things,
the way I advise, by the time you're
even thinking about cache thresholds,
you are a well seasoned
service worker expert.
But just starting with a couple of
hundred kilobytes of JavaScript,
for all of you that probably have not
put one of these on your app yet,
you will, in all likelihood be
under the two megabyte mark for
the total size of the cache.
And start there, and
then as things evolve,
then we can worry about that complexity.
But start with tiny things, quick wins,
things that we'll speed stuff up but
not maybe allow things to
work completely offline.
And then iteratively move towards
the solution that's more comprehensive.
So we have one last thing to do here,
our prefetch cache is populated,
our fallback image is there.
While Steve was talking, I kinda
changed the name of his cache just so
that it is versioned along
with everything else.
So now I've gone back to version one,
as long as this is changing I just delete
anything that's not the current version,
so I don't have to even increase it,
I can decrease it too.
Now we just have to use
the stuff in the cache.
So we're gonna go into our fetch
handler here, I can close this or
collapse it cuz we don't
need that quite yet.
Or we can just kind of leave it alone.
And now we're in the situation if
you remember that slide where we had
different MIME types and
we wanna handle that stuff differently.
Prefetch I like to handle in
a slightly different way.
I want, if it's possible,
to use something from the prefetch cache,
let's go ahead and use that.
And then all other strategies,
I like to sort of that to live in the,
we have nothing in
the prefetch cache spot.
So let me translate that nebulous
sentence into code for you.
>> Mike North: So what we're gonna do is
say,
>> Mike North: So
we'll say event.respondWith, and
we're gonna have a giant
mega promise here.
So the first thing we're gonna
do is say caches.match, right?
Just like, Steve has been using up
here and FALLBACK_IMAGEs here, right?
And sorry, we need something else here,
>> Mike North: Great, and we're
gonna do the same approach here where we
name the cache we're matching against.
It's not good enough just
to say This is somewhere,
it's the prefetch we're looking at.
So we're saying, ALL_CACHES.prefetch,
that'll give us the correct
version string.
Sorry, wrong,
what goes in here is the request,
>> Mike North: Something like that.
All right, so and then we're going
to return the response,
or proceed anywhere.
Like, proceed to the next level down.
So this is a pattern you'll
see all over the place, and
let's see if we've already got it up here.
Not yet, we didn't have
an opportunity to do it yet.
We're taking advantage of the fact that
when you return a non promise value
from your dot then call back,
it gets wrapped in a promise for us.
So we can say return this response or
other promise, and regardless
like we gonna get a promise that returns
the response as part of this chain.
So in this case-
>> Speaker 2: Unless the second one
rejects also.
>> Mike North: But no matter what
we want to return a promise,
like we want to ultimately, sorry, no
matter what we need to return a promise-
>> Speaker 2: A response-
>> Mike North: A results to response.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike North: Promise that
results to a response.
>> Speaker 2: Because it always
returns something, right?
>> Mike North: Yep, absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike North: Actually, the way this
is structured, I can't be quite so
neat about it here but no worry.
So if response we're gonna return,
we're gonna let it just pass through,
and then we can put this, and here.
So one interesting thing
is that you don't,
I find that I don't have to be quite so
defensive about the caches.match.
Because it's gonna return you something or
return you undefined the catch handler is,
that's a really strange thing
to hit from caches.match.
It's gonna return you a value and
we can sort of proceed forward.
So effectively here,
let me add some comments.
Let's say, if a precached thing is found,
>> Mike North: Go with it.
Otherwise,
>> Mike North: Let's dig deeper.
So if we find images like
we'll go through that, and
then we just need to sort of unpack
this from respond with here.
So we're gonna return that.
And then, otherwise,
if we get all the way down
here,
>> Mike North: We'll
just make the request
to the outside world.
The reason I structure things this way is
you can only respond to requests once.
You can only respond to requests once.
So if we had what Steve's code
was completely reasonable here,
structured as so.
If you have like littered
event that respond with and
scattered amongst all of
these little functions that
you've broken your various mind
type specific handling into.
It's very easy to kinda find that you're
trying to respond to something that has
already been responded to.
The way to save yourself from
this is to just say look our
job is now to have some chain
of promise you things, right?
That ultimately resolve to a response,
and we're gonna use that.
So I've sort of unpacked events that
respond with that's now on the outside,
and now instead we're returning.
The benefit there is like
return terminate that function,
like we're done with that, right?
And so that is what makes it so that
we don't end up like continuing on and
responding with something else.
So it's sort of like these two
ideas are equal except one
puts the brakes on things, and
lets us say like we're finished, right?
But their consequences, now,
I'm obligated to explicitly go it and
fetch in the event that like no other
caching strategy has met our needs.
And let's look at where we at once
this reload, getting some errors,
unused variables, that's fine.
Okay, so if we look at our network tab,
click the JavaScript.
Here is the big change that we see.
So the app JavaScript file is
served from the service working.
And although it is 372 milliseconds here,
let me expand this out.
>> Mike North: Come on,
work with me, Chrome.
>> Mike North: There we go.
>> Mike North: Okay, so
Let me decode this for you.
>> Mike North: So
this was the original download here,
that was the content being downloaded.
That's a fetch the outside world.
>> Mike North: Interesting, let me do
some login, here's what I suspect.
This is still taking way too long.
I expect this number to be really small,
but
everything's being handled
by the service worker now.
I'm gonna put a debugger here, and
see if we hit it for JavaScript files.
>> Mike North: So
that's the index.html, that's fine.
>> Mike North: Let me
put a watch in place.
>> Mike North: Play, play, play.
>> Mike North: So there's API calls
going out, that's that's some DevTools
stuff going on the tell web pack knows to
refresh your screen, a chrome extension.
>> Mike North: I need to do a refresh
here because like we're certainly past
the JavaScript.
>> Mike North: Play through,
all right, what's going on?
Let me do a conditional break
point instead of this, the stuff.
>> Mike North: Edit break points and
we're gonna say only stop here if
event.request.url.indexOf (".js") >= 0.
>> Mike North: And
make sure we're not service worker reluct.
Like we don't have something waiting,
we do.
All right, there's our JavaScript.
So let's see where this takes us.
>> Mike North: So there's our response,
that looks like our JavaScript response.
Maybe we just have a little like,
a stale service worker running the show.
Let's look at our network tab,
uh-ha, here we go.
That is way shorter.
We just took the downloading process,
even from local hosts,
this thing took 327 milliseconds.
We brought it down to less than 10% of
the time it takes to download that file.
Because it's really just like sitting
in memory waiting for us, right?
And you can even see that there's
like it's broken down into us kind of
waiting for the service worker to free
up functions run to completion there.
They do anywhere else in JavaScript,
they might be in the middle
of doing something else.
And we sort of think of it
almost like a set timeout 0, or
it says like soon,
please give me this asset.
But this is a massive improvement,
this is a big improvement.
And this kind of thing is one of
the early improvements you can
make to your app to really take advantage
of the power of service workers.
And to speed up everything but
the first boot time,
the second through nth boot
time until you deploy again.
Well actually, even after you deploy again
you've got your service worker downloading
the next version in the background.
So this really will
give that time to first
paint for return visits, a huge boost.
And that is the end of the exercise here.
A little involved, and I don't,
let me just go back to the slid here so
you can see what we've done here.
So in short,
we've fetch in asset manifest,
download a bunch of stuff that
we know about the build time.
And the activate handler we
cleaned up anything that was old
that we don't need again.
And then finally,
in our fetch handler we kinda upgraded it.
So beyond to just as fallback image thing.
Now we're checking to see if we got
something that we prepared in advance that
we can use rather than going
to the outside network.
If you didn't follow along with this,
I would encourage you to like save
your work, and maybe get reset
to the commit I'm about to push.
Because we're gonna go deeper,
and deeper down this rabbit hole.
>> Mike North: Ultimately,
dealing with the JSON, and then finally,
index.html at which point
we'll be fully offline.